README.md, before:

# DevOps AI Assistant Open Leaderboard

This project tracks, ranks, and evaluates DevOps AI Assistants across knowledge domains.

## 🏆 Current Leaderboard

| Name      | Dataset File               | Percent Accuracy | Median Duration (s) | Created At |
|-----------|----------------------------|------------------|---------------------|------------|
| OpsTower  | aws_cloudwatch_metrics.csv | 89% 🏆           | 42                  | 2023-09-17 |
| ReleaseAi | aws_cloudwatch_metrics.csv | 56%              | 20                  | 2023-09-18 |
| OpsTower  | aws_services.csv           | 92% 🏆           | 29                  | 2023-09-17 |
| ReleaseAi | aws_services.csv           | 72%              | 11                  | 2023-09-17 |
| OpsTower  | aws_billing.csv            | 91% 🏆           | 53                  | 2023-09-18 |
| ReleaseAi | aws_billing.csv            | 73%              | 23                  | 2023-09-18 |

Metrics:

* Percent Accuracy: The percent of questions that the DevOps AI Assistant answered correctly.
* Median Duration: The median duration in seconds that it took the DevOps AI Assistant to answer a question.

## Evaluated DevOps AI Assistants

* [OpsTower.ai](https://github.com/opstower-ai/llm-opstower)
* [ReleaseAi](https://release.ai)

## What is a DevOps AI Assistant?

A DevOps AI Assistant is an LLM-backed autonomous agent that helps DevOps engineers perform their daily tasks. They connect to external systems like AWS and Kubernetes to perform actions on behalf of the user.

## Submit a DevOps AI Assistant for evaluation

Open a PR and submit a DevOps AI Assistant for automated evaluation. To be evaluated, I need to be able to interact with it on the command line or via a REST API.

## Question Datasets

See the [datasets/](datasets/) directory for the question datasets. There are 3 columns in each dataset csv file:

1. `question`: The question to ask the DevOps AI Assistant
2. `answer_format`: The expected answer in natural language.
3. `reference_functions`: The reference functions that the DevOps AI Assistant should call to answer the question.

## Evaluation Process

1. Iterate over each question in the dataset and store:
  * the answer from the DevOps AI Assistant
  * the truth answer derived from evaluating the human-evaluated [reference functions](functions/) with a [prompt](prompts/answer_from_saved_methods.rb) to summarize the results into an answer.
2. Iterate over the answer results, using the [dynamic eval prompt](prompts/dynamic_eval.rb) to compare the results of the DevOps AI Assistant to the truth answer. This generates a confidence score and a short explanation for background on the score.
3. Store the results in the [results/](results/) directory.

## A note on dynamic evaluation

A critical component of the evaluation process is the dynamic evaluation. It's not feasible to provide a static answer for most questions as the correct answer is environment-specific. For example, the answer to "What is the average CPU utilization across my EC2 instances?" is not a static answer. It depends on the current state of the EC2 instances.

To solve this, I've stored a set of human-evaluated functions to generate the data that provide correct answers. Then, I use an LLM prompt to generate a natural language answer from the data. This would be a poor evaluation process if the LLM provided an incorrect answer based on the returned data, but I have yet to observe significant errors in the LLM's reasoning of the function output.

Please submit a PR if you believe a reference function is incorrect.

## Contact Info

Reach out to me at derek@dlite.cc if you have general questions about this leaderboard.

Commit message:

Add list of agents and dataset details

README.md, after:

# DevOps AI Assistant Open Leaderboard

This project tracks, ranks, and evaluates DevOps AI Assistants across knowledge domains.

## 🏆 Current Leaderboard

| Name      | Dataset File               | Accuracy         | Median Duration (s) | Created At |
|-----------|----------------------------|------------------|---------------------|------------|
| OpsTower  | aws_cloudwatch_metrics.csv | 89% 🏆           | 42                  | 2023-09-17 |
| ReleaseAi | aws_cloudwatch_metrics.csv | 56%              | 20                  | 2023-09-18 |
| OpsTower  | aws_services.csv           | 92% 🏆           | 29                  | 2023-09-17 |
| ReleaseAi | aws_services.csv           | 72%              | 11                  | 2023-09-17 |
| OpsTower  | aws_billing.csv            | 91% 🏆           | 53                  | 2023-09-18 |
| ReleaseAi | aws_billing.csv            | 73%              | 23                  | 2023-09-18 |

Metrics:

* `Accuracy`: The percent of questions that the DevOps AI Assistant answered correctly.
* `Median Duration`: The median duration in seconds that it took the DevOps AI Assistant to answer a question.

## What is a DevOps AI Assistant?

A DevOps AI Assistant is an LLM-backed autonomous agent that helps DevOps engineers perform their daily tasks. They connect to external systems like AWS and Kubernetes to perform actions on behalf of the user.

## List of DevOps AI Assistants

| Name | Focus | Evaluated? |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [OpsTower.ai](https://github.com/opstower-ai/llm-opstower) | AWS CLI | Yes |
| [ReleaseAI](https://release.ai/) | AWS CLI, Kubectl | Yes |
| [aiac](https://github.com/gofireflyio/aiac) | Infastructure as code | No |
| [KubeCtl-ai](https://github.com/sozercan/kubectl-ai) | Kubernetes manifests | No |
| [aiws](https://github.com/huseyinbabal/aiws) | AI Driven AWS CLI | No |
| [Terraform AI](https://github.com/jigsaw373/terraform-ai) | Terraform assistant for OpenAI GPT  | No |
| [tfgpt](https://github.com/flavius-dinu/tfgpt) | Provides explanations for Terraform commands and concepts | No |
| [cloud copilot](https://github.com/aavetis/cloud-copilot) | Azure CLI | No |
| [kubiya](https://www.kubiya.ai/) | AWS, Kubernetes, GitHub, etc | No |
| [micro](https://github.com/tahtaciburak/mico) | kubectl | No |
| [kubectl-gpt](https://github.com/devinjeon/kubectl-gpt) | kubectl | No |
| [kubectl-GPT](https://github.com/abhishek-ch/Kubectl-GPT) | kubectl | No |

### Submit a DevOps AI Assistant for evaluation

Open a PR and submit a DevOps AI Assistant for automated evaluation. To be evaluated, I need to be able to interact with it on the command line or via a REST API.

## Question Datasets

See the [datasets/](datasets/) directory for the question datasets. There are 3 columns in each dataset csv file:

1. `question`: The question to ask the DevOps AI Assistant
2. `answer_format`: The expected answer in natural language.
3. `reference_functions`: The reference functions that the DevOps AI Assistant should call to answer the question.

List of datasets:

| Name | Example Question |
| -------- | -------- |
| [aws_cloudwatch_metrics.csv](datasets/aws_cloudwatch_metrics.csv) | Were there any Lambda invocations that lasted over 30 seconds in the last day? |
| [aws_services.csv](datasets/aws_services.csv) | Do our ec2 instances have are any unexpected reboots or terminations over the past 7 days? |
| [aws_billing.csv](datasets/aws_billing.csv) | Which region has the highest AWS expenses for me over the past 3 months? |

## Evaluation Process

1. Iterate over each question in the dataset and store:
  * the answer from the DevOps AI Assistant
  * the truth answer derived from evaluating the human-evaluated [reference functions](functions/) with a [prompt](prompts/answer_from_saved_methods.rb) to summarize the results into an answer.
2. Iterate over the answer results, using the [dynamic eval prompt](prompts/dynamic_eval.rb) to compare the results of the DevOps AI Assistant to the truth answer. This generates a confidence score and a short explanation for background on the score.
3. Store the results in the [results/](results/) directory.

## A note on dynamic evaluation

A critical component of the evaluation process is the dynamic evaluation. It's not feasible to provide a static answer for most questions as the correct answer is environment-specific. For example, the answer to "What is the average CPU utilization across my EC2 instances?" is not a static answer. It depends on the current state of the EC2 instances.

To solve this, I've stored a set of human-evaluated functions to generate the data that provide correct answers. Then, I use an LLM prompt to generate a natural language answer from the data. This would be a poor evaluation process if the LLM provided an incorrect answer based on the returned data, but I have yet to observe significant errors in the LLM's reasoning of the function output.

Please submit a PR if you believe a reference function is incorrect.

## Contact Info

Reach out derek@opstower.ai if you have general questions about this leaderboard.
